Adds pre-push readiness skill (#11935)
flutter/packages: .agents/skills/pre-push-skill/SKILL.md

Reviewer: This skill should go in camera_android_camerax/.agents/skills for now.

Reviewer: Meta comments: 
* We need to decide if file changes are part of this skill or if this skill has no file changes and instead the agents responds to failures like a test.

Author: Decided that this should just be a skill that verifies the state of code versus applies fixes. We can change that later on but I don't think we should introduce the complexity of fixes for now.

---
name: "pre-push-skill"

> description: "A comprehensive pre-push checklist for contributing to the flutter/packages repository."

Reviewer 2: So from what I remember, skills are invoked only based off the description and the name. So maybe you can make the desc more detailed? something like

"Executes the required pre-push steps for the flutter/packages repository. Call this tool immediately whenever the user asks to push, requests a code review before committing, or wants to validate their local changes for a pull request. Do NOT use this tool if the user is working in flutter/flutter or flutter/engine."

Author: I see. Good call, I like your description! Updated it.

> description: "Executes the required pre-push steps for the flutter/packages repository. Call this tool immediately whenever the user asks to push, requests a code review before committing, or wants to validate their local changes can become a pull request. Do NOT use this tool if the user is working in flutter/flutter or flutter/engine."

Reviewer: I am not sure this should trigger on request for "code review before committing". Consider instead 
```suggestion
description: "Executes the required pre-push steps for the flutter/packages repository. Call this tool immediately whenever the user asks to push, asks if we/you are ready to push, or wants to validate their local changes can become a pull request. [Do NOT use this tool if the user is working in flutter/flutter or flutter/engine](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/188373)."
```

Why did you need "https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/188373"? This skill should be loaded locally so it should not leak to those environments.

Author: Accepted minus the notes on engine/framework

---

# Pre-Push Skill

This skill provides a fully automated pre-push validation script
and a mental checklist for developers attempting to push code changes
to any of the packages in the flutter/packages repository.
It directly answers the question: **"Am I ready to push?"**

Follow the steps below before pushing any current code changes upstream
via `git push` to a package or finishing your task.
If any step fails, continue with the following steps

> to provide a comprehensive list of required fixes for the user.

Reviewer: Agent authored skills really like adding this secondary description but once this is read the skill is already loaded. If there is important information here like "Am I ready to push" Then it should be in the description in the frontmatter. Otherwise it should be removed.

## 1. Initial Clean Working Tree Check

Because the tooling natively relies on `git diff`
to determine which packages have changed,
it **completely ignores uncommitted changes**.

> You must ensure the working tree is clean before running any checks.

Reviewer: Which tooling? 

"completely ignores uncommitted changes" I dont think this is true. More importantly I think part of the definition of "ready to push" is that git is in a clean state. I think this whole section could be 

```suggestion
The first step is ensuring that all changes are committed and there are no tracked files with lingering non committed state. 
```

Command to run:

```bash
git status --porcelain
```

If this command outputs anything, the code WAS NOT ready to push.

> The developer must commit or stash their changes

Reviewer: Try to avoid "who" unless you specifically need a human to take the step for safety, policy etc. 
FWIW we could say that the agent should do this but I think it is better to say that the response from this skill is 
"No the code is not ready to push. Git has uncommitted changes."

before you can proceed with the remaining validation steps.
Do not continue if there are uncommitted changes.

## 2. Check for Changed Packages

> Because `--run-on-changed-packages` defaults to checking the entire repository

Reviewer: We could make this way more simple if you decided that https://github.com/flutter/packages/pull/11935/changes#r3461096989 is a good idea. Just hardcode the flag to only check camera_android_camerax

if zero packages have changed, you must verify
that there are actually package changes to test.
Command to run:

```bash
git diff --name-only main...HEAD | grep '^packages/'
```

If this command outputs nothing, then no packages were modified in this branch.
You can skip all remaining validation steps
and proceed directly to the Final Review.
If it outputs file paths, continue to the next step.

## 3. Format Code

Consistent code style is required for all pull requests.
The repository uses auto-formatters (like `dart format`, `clang-format`)
to enforce this. Command to run:

```bash
dart run script/tool/bin/flutter_plugin_tools.dart \
  format --run-on-changed-packages

> ```

Author: Just saw that we could also use the `--set-exit-if-changed` option. But we could format directly since it might help the developer. @LouiseHsu what do you think?

Reviewer 2: I think what you have is good already!

Reviewer: I think it depends on what you want the scope of this skill to be. My gut says that the skill should not format but instead should say that formatting changes were found. That way one of the evals we can run is "did any files change when running this skill" and enforce that the answer is no. But that only makes sense if the skills "check pre push" skill and not a "prepare for push" skil. So it comes down to a scope question. 

Second we are designing this as a system. The precommits should handle formatting(and analyze) so maybe the right answer is to do no formatting checks.

> The repository uses auto-formatters (like `dart format`, `clang-format`)

Reviewer: Not not but maybe later we should reference the check-readiness skill to ensure the formatters are on path and acceptable.

If this command modifies any files, the code WAS NOT ready to push.
Those changes must be committed before the developer can push.

## 4. Static Analysis

Static analysis catches potential bugs, type errors,
and style violations without needing to run the code.
All code must pass the analyzer without any warnings or errors.
Command to run:

```bash
dart run script/tool/bin/flutter_plugin_tools.dart \
  analyze --run-on-changed-packages
```

If this command fails, the code WAS NOT ready to push.
Those analyzer errors must be fixed and committed before the developer can push.

## 5. Unit Tests

Tests ensure that your changes do not break existing functionality
and that new features work as expected.
All unit tests must pass before code can be merged.
Command to run:

```bash
dart run script/tool/bin/flutter_plugin_tools.dart \

>   dart-test --run-on-changed-packages

Reviewer: again this is a place where we could simplify the command if we scoped it to camera_android_camerax

Reviewer: This also has the semi dangerous assumption that main was not broken and that we are merging back into main. Those assumptions are probably fine for a first version of the skill but we might want to articulate a more nuanced version.

Author: Updated this to include more nuance. We could do a more technical step where we have the agent check if it was failing before but I consider that a bit out of scope.

```

If this command fails, the code WAS NOT ready to push.
Those test errors must be fixed and committed before the developer can push.

## 6. Publish Check (Version and CHANGELOG updates)

Any pull request that changes non-test code
must increment the package version in `pubspec.yaml`
and add a corresponding entry describing the change in `CHANGELOG.md`.
Command to run:

```bash
dart run script/tool/bin/flutter_plugin_tools.dart \
  publish-check --run-on-changed-packages
```

If this command fails, the code WAS NOT ready to push.
The required version bump and changelog entry must be made
and committed before the developer can push.
This can be done automatically by running:

```bash
dart run script/tool/bin/flutter_plugin_tools.dart update-release-info \

>   --version=minimal --base-branch=main \

Reviewer: probably should not hardcode --version=minimal. Consider instead articulating how to decide the scope of a version change.

>   --changelog="<description of your changes>"

Reviewer: I think we have docs on how to write a changelog. Lets include a link to those here.

```

## 7. License Headers

All source files in this repository must include
the standard copyright and license header.
Command to run:

```bash
dart run script/tool/bin/flutter_plugin_tools.dart license-check
```

If this command fails, the code WAS NOT ready to push.
Those license errors must be fixed and committed before the developer can push.

## 8. Final Clean Working Tree Check

> Before pushing, ensure that all your fixes, formatting changes,

Reviewer: Lets make a call on if this skill is only about evaluating if the changes are ready to push or if its scope it to actually make the changes.

and version bumps are committed. Command to run:

```bash
git status --porcelain
```

If this command outputs anything, the code WAS NOT ready to push.
The changes must be cleaned up before the developer can push.

---

> ## Final Review

Reviewer: Instead of using temporal works like final. Lets come up with something else. Maybe Non-mechanical?

Before declaring the task complete,
verify the final requirements for creating a pull request
in the flutter/packages repository.

**What you MUST verify automatically:**
- **Documentation:** Check if the modified or newly added public APIs
  include Dart doc comments (`///`). If any are missing, proactively fix them
  or ask the user if they'd like you to add them.
- **Tests:** Check if any test files were added or modified
  alongside the source code changes. If not, proactively ask the user

>   if they'd like you to generate tests (Critical for PR acceptance!).

Reviewer: Lets be a bit more specific about what types of tests we expect. 

```suggestion
- **Tests:** It is expected that virtually all changes required a test see [Test Documentation](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/blob/master/docs/ecosystem/testing/Plugin-Tests.md). Evaluate the change against that testing rubric If they are not give a quote from the testing documentation on what type of test for which feature needs to be added. If you think the change does not meet the documented quality bar tell the user and only push if they approve the test coverage. 
```

> **What you MUST NOT hold against the developer:**

Reviewer: Did this happen during your work? I would be surprised if it did. 
If it did can you add an example?

Author: Deleted. It didn't happen to me, just wanted to explicitly cover the checklist and be clear about what to fail on versus not. But you're right, this is out of scope!

Do NOT penalize or block the developer for administrative checklist items
that are unverifiable by an agent
(e.g., signing the CLA, reading the Contributor Guide).

**Action to take:**
First, explicitly state the final verdict to the user
at the very beginning of your response using a large heading:

- If ANY step failed: Start your response with a clear
  "# NO, you are not ready to push."

>   followed by a summary of what failed and what needs to be fixed.

Reviewer: I really like that you gave the explicit format.

- If ALL steps passed: Start your response with a clear
  "# YES, you are ready to push!"

Then, provide the developer with a brief summary

> of what you verified automatically.

Reviewer: Give an example here of failure and success.

If the code is ready to push, provide them with this short checklist

> of items they will need to handle when opening their pull request:

Reviewer: I think this should actually output the gh pr create command that should be used.

- Ensure the PR title starts with the package name in brackets

>   (e.g., `[camera_android] Fix crash`).

Reviewer: Give instructions for prs that touch multiple packages.

- Ensure the PR description links to at least one issue that is being fixed.

> - Ensure they have signed the CLA.

Reviewer: We should remove this for now. We have all signed the cla any bot account will have been approved already.

> - Ensure the branch is up to date with the main branch

Reviewer: This should happen as part of the early steps before formatting and especially before changelog verification. I would really stick to have an easy to update branch that becomes hard to update because you added changelogs and version bumps.
